Artificial Intelligence is a field that has continually developed over the years and has made itself ever-present today. The One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence talks about AI and the variety of domains that it has expanded toward. Although the article makes several valid points and presents multiple ideas, I believe that there are some areas where the article’s analysis is flawed and should be challenged. One such area I feel the article is flawed is with the analysis of AI used in the education sector. The article states that AI promises to enhance education at all levels. I believe that this idea needs to be challenged as we take a look at the negative impacts of AI on education from a broader view.

First, I believe that one of the problems with AI is the increase in cheating and our over-dependence on it. An article written by Lynch talks about how AI can influence cheating and cause addiction to the technology available to us. The article points out that students “turn to google for answers” and tend to use online chatbots to obtain answers to some of their homework and quiz questions. Furthermore, the article mentions that the overuse of AI in the classroom will lead to dependence and addiction towards it. I believe that this will inevitably lead to less hard-working students and those who will constantly seek the easy way out to complete work. The solution is to have a good balance of human and AI interaction in the classroom.

Moreover, I believe that another downside to using AI is that it cannot produce the same results as a physical teacher (this is with the context of teaching robots replacing teachers). A study by Bettinger et al found that classes did remotely and relying heavily on AI and technology “lead to poorer student outcomes” in comparison to classes taught with a teacher physically present. Furthermore, another study by Sher talks about how interpersonal communication in a class can improve a student’s satisfaction and motivation to do work – a feature that AI technology or any robot cannot replicate or replace. I believe that although AI has helped to improve the efficiency of teaching in the classroom, it cannot replace the effect that human presence has on a student’s results and morale. It should be used in moderation to ensure that the fundamentals of teaching are not completely lost.

In summary, although AI is very beneficial to the education domain, I don’t believe that we should rely on the promise of AI enhancing all aspects of education. As AI becomes a dominant field and continues to make its presence known in all domains, we must not let it control all the aspects of the education sector. There are far too many factors that cannot be replaced by AI and I feel that it should be applied to this domain in moderation where it can help teachers to teach more efficiently.